---
title: Terminology and Use cases for Secured Routing Infrastructure
abbrev: nasr-names
docname: draft-richardson-nasr-terminology-00

stand_alone: true
ipr: trust200902
area: Internet
wg: anima Working Group
kw: Internet-Draft
cat: std

pi:    # can use array (if all yes) or hash here
  toc: yes
  sortrefs:   # defaults to yes
  symrefs: yes

author:


- ins: M. Richardson
  name: Michael Richardson
  org: Sandelman Software Works
  email: mcr+ietf@sandelman.ca

- ins: C. Liu
  name: Chunchi (Peter) Liu
  org: Huawei Technologies
  email: liuchunchi@huawei.com

normative:
  BCP14: RFC8174

informative:

contributor:
  - name: Meiling Chen

venue:
  group: nasr
  mail: nasr@ietf.org
  github: mcr/nasr-terminology

--- abstract

This document collects terminology and use cases for Secured Routing.

--- middle

# Introduction

This document collects terminology in use for various secured routing
efforts.

In addition, it may collect use cases that explain the terminology.

This documents is not intended to ever be published.

# Terminology

{::boilerplate bcp14info}

BGP Security: 
: Mechanisms and operational strategies such as RPKI and BGPSEC implemented to enhance the trustworthiness and robustness of BGP operations, including route origin authentication, AS path integrity validation and other approaches against prefix hijacking and route leaks.

Routing Security: 
: Achieving correct reachability within and across networks by ensuring authentic and truthful distribution of routing information.

Secure routing:
: Protect data security by ensuring data transits only on trusted devices, trusted operating environments or trusted services.

Path Validation (BGP):
: an examination of control plane messages to validate that the planned route is correct.

Proof of Transit:
: Secure and verifiable logs or evidence of a packet's transit path in the data plane.   

Path Validation (POT):
: a verification of proof-of-transit against control plane information to validate if the packet was forwarded according to control plane path. 

Planned Route:
: unsure

BGP Security:
: (such as RPKI) concerns itself with the authenticity of route announcements
rather than the trustworthiness of the network operating environment.

# Use Cases

TBD

# Security Considerations

Just words, no protocols in this document.

# IANA Considerations

This document makes no requests to IANA.

# Acknowledgements

Hello.

# Changelog


--- back

